so apparently i can make all the
hardcore space videos i want but all you
lot really want to see
is me reacting to space memes
so i figured it would be rude not to
make a part two
although last time some of you realize
my diabolical plan of luring you in with
the funny space meme and then bam
hitting you with the science
boom lawyer all right let's dive into
this meme review and i'll try not to
ruin them by making them too educational
my partner sam has picked out all of
these memes so i haven't seen any of
them yet so we're seeing them together
for
the first time so let's dive in and look
at the first one
no it's kind of trouble today not any
astronaut
that's so true like how many times do
you like
you know you hear someone being like oh
you have to go out and look for this
then you look out and
it's cloudy like i remember for the
conjunction of jupiter and saturn
in december of 2020 just gone like i was
so excited to see them that they were
coming together like so so close
on the sky and then on the day that they
made that closest approach
it was cloudy and i remember checking
the weather for like the entire
week trying to work out and like arrange
all the stuff i had to do for christmas
around the weather so that i could have
a chance
of seeing jupiter inside like all right
next one oh cute comment these my
favorites will you have another one
no too much responsibility don't want to
end up like
it's so cute look at him oh it's so cute
i love thinking about like how like the
different planets like got their
different numbers and different types of
moons if you think about mars
mars has two moons phobos and demos and
they're captured asteroids right they're
not even round they look like potatoes
and then you've got earth's moon the
moon right which we think
was formed in a giant impact hypothesis
in the early solar system right so
another planet collided with the very
early earth the two were pretty much
vaporized and then all of that molten
rock eventually cooled and coalesced
into the moon and it was big enough to
go into what we call hydrostatic
equilibrium my gravity was big enough to
make it into a nice round shape on like
the potatoes
of mars and jupiter you know it's
probably a mix of
all of these different scenarios of
moons that formed in situ moons that got
captured like asteroids
as well but also like you know this is a
joke about jupiter i don't want to want
to poo poo on the meme
but jupiter actually doesn't have the
most moons in the solar system we
thought it did for a really really long
time
but back in october 2019 there was a
research group that announced that
they'd found
20 new moons of saturn using a telescope
on mauna kea
in hawaii and i think it upped the
numbers it took the numbers
for saturn i think it's up to 82 and
jupiter's trailing behind at like
79. if i got those numbers wrong but
editing back you'll correct me
so saturn actually has the most moons in
the solar system now despite not
actually being
the biggest of planets so technically
this comic should have satin here and
maybe then i would also like it more
because saturn is my favorite planet
because it just it looks the coolest it
has the rings how can you not love
saturn
all right next one astronomy exam asks
age of the universe
big bang theory theme song memorized the
whole universe was in a hot dance state
and nearly 14 billion years ago
expansion started wait
i mean yeah it's burnt on my brain isn't
it like you know
nearly 14 billion years as well it's
definitely a good point like our best
estimate for the age of the universe
right now
13.787 billion years so nearly 14
billion years but the funny thing is
like we've got a couple of ways of
measuring the age of the universe now
and none of them agree and they don't
agree within the errors either which
makes physicists
really start to worry there's like a
billion years
difference in our estimate for our
different methods of measuring the age
of the universe
that's what's been dubbed the crisis in
cosmology i've made a couple of videos
on that on this channel before if you
want to check them out i'll link them up
here
and in the cards below but like it's not
just the big bang theory theme song
though right like i
also have the galaxy song from monty
python like
seared into my brain the sun and you and
me
and all the stars that we can see are
moving
at a million miles a day like i don't
think i actually know the dimensions of
the milky way like i have to sing that
song
to remember what they are like it's a
hundred thousand light years side to
side
it bulges in the middle fifteen thousand
light years thick but out by yours it's
just three thousand light years wide
like i swear that song got me through my
phd viber exam
all right that's definitely not singing
from me what's the next one
i have a feeling this molecular cloud
does not like you
oh i love this so much i mean i've seen
it before i know
this nebula i think it's part of the
much bigger i think it's the kareena
nebula let me just
let me just check that just you know
just wait patiently one second
few moments later yes yes it's part of
the karina nebula complex and it's known
as the defiant
finger which i think is a very polite
way to describe it it's a few light
years long this thing and it's a type of
nebula called a bok globule which i've
done a video about before
on this channel i remember using it as
an image
in the video and just didn't mention it
at all and everyone in the comments was
like whoa whoa whoa what
what was that you can't just like drop
that in and
not mention it but bark barcelo
well a bach globule is a type copy is a
fun word isn't it like i would pay
good money to hear rowan atkinson and
say
buck globule anyway these bot globules
are these are
really dark and really dusty nebula
which is what makes them so dark the
dust blocks the light and they were
discovered by the astronomer
bark back in like the 40s and he
described them
as an insect cocoon which i think is a
really good way of describing them
because
it's where stars are being formed so
where stars are being born essentially
but we can't see it because of all the
dust so
we don't see those brand new stars until
essentially all that dust and gas
is shed away like an insect cocoon
heaviest objects in the universe the sun
a neutron star
a black hole and my eyelids are reading
the
section of a paper like i feel like this
is so niche but i've never read anything
more true in my entire life
like i hardly ever read the method
section of a paper it's just so boring
if i'm reading a scientific paper i'll
read the abstract which is kind of like
the blurb right or the summary and then
if i'm still interested
like i'll look at the figures and like
read the captions
as i'm saying i now realize sounds
really bad because it's like i just look
at the pictures but
i read the figures and you know see if
that tells sort of like the scientific
story and like read the captions
and then if i'm still really interested
i'll then read the discussion section
which sort of like puts all the results
like into context right in terms of like
the big picture
of everything the only time i'll ever
read the methods section is if i'm like
trying to
reproduce something that another like
person or another piece of work
has done and then honestly oh my god
it's just so
difficult to read because it's just so
dry and boring and you know what
it's actually even more difficult
to write a method section
because you sound like you're back
in like year one again and you're five
years old and you're
like writing about your weekend because
it's just like and then i did this
and then i did this and then we did this
and then i just
just feel so stupid writing it even
though it's just
it's obviously such an important part of
the paper
honestly i hate it i hate it so much and
you know what i've just realized that
sam
probably put this one in there because
i was complaining about writing the
method section of my latest paper
at lunch the other day so i feel like
he's just he's trolling me with memes on
my own channel now isn't he that's what
he's doing
all right next one oh uh accident
election night these northern precincts
appear red which probably means they're
moving away from us whereas these blue
regions are approaching us
i believe the district may be rotating
in
this space like this is super niche as
well i remember this
xkcd from last year when the us election
was on and i remember seeing them and
thinking the exact same thing because
they do look like rotation maps of
galaxies that we make so
i'm actually using data at the minute
that we can make this kind of a map
and like they do look like that so i'm
gonna get editing becky to like put in
one so you can see it right now this is
what i'm actually talking about this is
the velocity map of one of the galaxies
i'm using in my research
blue areas are the areas of the galaxy
that are coming towards you so the light
from them
has been blue shifted it's been doppler
shifted so that the wavelength has been
squashed to shorter wavelengths
so you know that it's coming towards you
and the red areas of the galaxy the ones
moving away from you either light has
been
red shifted it's been doppler shifted so
it's been stretched out which is how you
know it's moving away from you now the
galaxy will have this like you know
overall
red shift because of the universe is
expanding and so it appears all the
galaxies are moving away from us
but like on top of that there's this
secondary
shift that you see for the rest of the
galaxy
and so that's how you see the rotation
of the galaxy and by looking at these
maps you can tell if the galaxy's been
left like relatively alone and isolated
all its life if its rotation is like
pretty much like perfect
or if that rotation is like really
messed up say like
the center of it is rotating it
completely different direction to the
outskirts or if it's just all a mess
then you know that that galaxy is like
interactive with another galaxy maybe
even merged with another galaxy
or it's had a flyby that's messed up or
something like that you
know that it's not been left alone sorry
i feel like we drifted too far into the
educational territory there i'll reel it
back in we'll see what the next meme is
[Laughter]
physics and astrophysics someone sent me
this one
on twitter or instagram
i can't remember which one i can't
remember who after i made my last space
means video and it's
literally one of the best things i've
ever seen i've never seen anything more
accurate in my entire life
like the astrophysics just it is just a
bit more flashy you know i often like to
describe it as a bit of a gateway
science because like you lure people in
with all the pretty pictures
of galaxies and stars and like all the
mind-blowing facts about the universe
and then it's like
bam they're hooked on science they're
doing a physics degree and they're
spending their days going through
endless reams of equations of
tensor mass trying to solve einstein's
theory of general relativity and they
think
how did i get here and you're like
[Laughter]
it was the pretty pictures five to seven
billion years from now when the sun
turns into a red giant star and swallows
mercury venus and possibly earth pluto
be like who's not
a planet now it still won't be a planet
then
it will still be a dwarf planet like i
swear
half of the space memes that you can
find on the internet
are about how pluto is not a planet when
will the internet
get over this already it's been 15
years since pluto is given its proper
classification
as dwarf planet and if you're still not
convinced right
pluto is smaller than the earth's moon
right it's like
six times less massive than the moon
it's also more like a binary planet
because its moon sharon
is only half the size of pluto so
instead of sharon orbiting pluto
the two orbit a common center of mass
that's not even inside
of pluto it also doesn't orbit
in the same plane as the rest of the
planets it's massively inclined just
like all of the
trans-neptunian objects that look a lot
like pluto you know and if it makes you
feel better by reclassifying it you know
it's like pluto has found its people
you know it's found like where it
belongs or
how i like to think of it instead of
being like the runt of the planets
it's now king of the dwarves
that was so much fun seriously if you
see
any other space memes like on your
internet travels and you've got to send
them to me
on social media like you know distract
me from my science research
with space memes because i'm always
going to want to giggle at them now
there's no video for me
next week so i'm going to take a break
over easter a break from science
research break from youtube just
switch off a little bit but i will be
back with my
night sky news my sort of monthly
wrap-up of everything that's been
happening in space news
in two weeks time so i'll see you then
just before i go i want to say a big
thank you to this week's video sponsor
brilliant brilliant is a website and an
app that's built on the principle that
you learn best
by doing not by memorizing formula or
revising for exams
just pick a course that you're
interested in and get started whether
that's in science maths or computer
science brilliant has something for
everyone you don't need to worry about
getting stuck or
making a mistake you can read
explanations to find out more
and go at your own pace so maybe after
this video you want to know more about
space so you can check out their amazing
astronomy course
for example you might want to know more
about what will happen to the sun in
five-ish billion years when it runs out
of fuel and how that compares to
other stars of different sizes if so
their stellar remnants course covers
all of the basics so if that sounds like
fun to you and you want to support me
and my channel then head to
brilliant.org forward slash
dr becky that's d-r-b-e-c-k-y
and sign up completely for free plus the
first 200 people that go
to that link that is linked in the video
description down below will get
20 off an annual premium subscription
so head over there and say a big thank
you to brilliant
from me anyway there are these they're
these
they are the they are these anyway
anyway there they are these anyway they
are these
anyway